
In this project, we will employ several supervised algorithms of our choice to accurately model individuals' income using data collected from the 1994 U.S. Census. We will then choose the best candidate algorithm from preliminary results and further optimize this algorithm to best model the data. Our goal with this implementation is to construct a model that accurately predicts whether an individual makes more than $50,000. This sort of task can arise in a non-profit setting, where organizations survive on donations. Understanding an individual's income can help a non-profit better understand how large of a donation to request, or whether or not they should reach out to begin with. While it can be difficult to determine an individual's general income bracket directly from public sources, we can (as we will see) infer this value from other publically available features.


The dataset for this project originates from the UCI Machine Learning Repository. The datset was donated by Ron Kohavi and Barry Becker, after being published in the article "Scaling Up the Accuracy of Naive-Bayes Classifiers: A Decision-Tree Hybrid". You can find the article by Ron Kohavi online. The data we investigate here consists of small changes to the original dataset, such as removing the 'fnlwgt' feature and records with missing or ill-formatted entries.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Investigated factors that affect the likelihood of charity donations being made based on real census data. Developed a naive classifier to compare testing results to. Trained and tested several supervised machine learning models on preprocessed census data to predict the likelihood of donations. Selected the best model based on accuracy, a modified F-scoring metric, and algorithm efficiency.
